README.md, before:

## fb_insight

An Express.js API to import and process Facebook Ads data. It fetches ad-level insights and Ad Library entries from Facebook Graph API, persists raw and processed data in MongoDB, optionally merges AWS Athena aggregates for allowlisted accounts, enriches assets, and exposes background job processing via BullMQ.

### Features
- **Facebook insights**: Graph API v22.0 insights with creatives (batched requests)
- **Ad Library**: Search by `search_page_ids` and date range
- **Storage**: MongoDB collections (`fb_insights`, `metrics`, `reports_data`, `assets`, etc.)
- **Optional Athena**: Query and merge aggregates for selected accounts
- **Go High Level merge**: Pull CRM opportunities and hydrate `lead` counts for allowlisted ad accounts (via `utmAdId` ↔ `ad_id`)
- **Enrichment**: Preview scraping, optional OpenAI, external tagging API
- **Validation**: Zod request schemas per endpoint
- **Jobs**: BullMQ queues + workers replacing `setTimeout`
- **Observability**: Structured JSON logs for every stage (fetch, mapping, metrics, report, enrichment, tagging)

### Architecture
- **Ingress**: Client → Nginx (TLS) → Express app
- **HTTP**: Routes → Controllers → Services → Repositories
- **Jobs**: Controllers enqueue jobs → BullMQ workers run domain tasks
- **Data sources**: Facebook Graph API, Go High Level (optional), AWS Athena (optional)
- **Storage**: MongoDB

### Directory structure (key parts)
```text
src/
  app.js                # express app setup
  server.js             # process entrypoint
  routes/               # http routes (task, ad-library)
  controllers/          # request handling, enqueue jobs
  middlewares/          # auth, validate, error
  schemas/              # zod request schemas
  services/
    facebook/           # clients for insights/ad library, fields
    reporting/          # mapping, metrics, process, schema.defaults
    enrichment/         # preview/openai/tagging/product
    athena/             # runAthenaQuery
    status/             # saveFacebookImportStatus
  repositories/
    mongo/              # client + common CRUD helpers
  jobs/
    queues.js           # BullMQ queues
    workers/            # job workers (task/adLibrary)
```

## Getting started

### Prerequisites
- **Node.js** 18+
- **MongoDB** (Atlas or self-hosted)
- **Redis** for BullMQ (localhost ok)
- **Facebook Marketing API** access token(s)
- Optional: **AWS** credentials and Athena config

### Install
```bash
npm install
```

### Environment variables
Create `.env` in the project root.

- **Core**
  - `mongodb_uri` (required): MongoDB connection string
  - `PORT` (optional): Express port, default `3000`
  - `SENTRY_DSN` (optional): Sentry DSN
- **Auth/External**
  - `STATIC_TOKEN` (optional): Static token for `/run-ad-library`
  - `FLUX_STATIC_API_KEY` (optional): External tagging API key
  - `OPENAI_API_KEY` (optional): OpenAI API key
- **AWS Athena (optional)**
  - `AWS_REGION` (default `us-east-1`)
  - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`
  - `ATHENA_DATABASE` (e.g. `marketing`)
  - `ATHENA_OUTPUT_LOCATION` (e.g. `s3://bucket/prefix/`)
- **Go High Level (optional, per-account leads)**
  - `GHL_API_TOKEN` and `GHL_LOCATION_ID` (fallback credentials)
  - `GHL_TOKEN_ACT_435957451701926`, `GHL_LOCATION_ACT_435957451701926` (example account-specific overrides)
  - `GHL_API_BASE` (default `https://services.leadconnectorhq.com`)
  - `GHL_API_VERSION` (default `2021-07-28`)
  - `GHL_PAGE_LIMIT` (optional pagination size, default `100`)
- **Redis (BullMQ)**
  - `REDIS_HOST` (default `127.0.0.1`)
  - `REDIS_PORT` (default `6379`)
  - `REDIS_PASSWORD` (optional)

Example:
```bash
mongodb_uri=mongodb+srv://user:pass@cluster/db
PORT=3000
SENTRY_DSN=https://xxx@sentry.io/yyy
STATIC_TOKEN=replace-me
FLUX_STATIC_API_KEY=your-flux-api-key
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
AWS_REGION=us-east-1
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AKIA...
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=...
ATHENA_DATABASE=marketing
ATHENA_OUTPUT_LOCATION=s3://your-bucket/athena/results/
GHL_TOKEN_ACT_435957451701926=pit-your-token
GHL_LOCATION_ACT_435957451701926=jCg6NFxDi5ACN8xv6H2C
REDIS_HOST=127.0.0.1
REDIS_PORT=6379
```

### Run locally
```bash
# 1) start API
npm start

# 2) start workers (separate terminals)
node src/jobs/workers/task.worker.js
node src/jobs/workers/adLibrary.worker.js
```

The server logs: `API listening on <PORT>`.

### Go High Level integration

- A Go High Level pull runs automatically for `act_435957451701926` after Facebook insights import. Configure credentials through either account-specific (`GHL_TOKEN_ACT_...`, `GHL_LOCATION_ACT_...`) or fallback (`GHL_API_TOKEN`, `GHL_LOCATION_ID`) variables.
- The worker paginates `/opportunities/search` with the requested date range, retries on 429/5xx, de-duplicates opportunity IDs, and maps opportunities to ads via `utmAdId` (case-insensitive).
- Funnel metrics are sourced from the pipeline stage on each opportunity. For every matching ad we populate:
  - `lead`
  - `appts`
  - `noresp`
  - `show`
  - `noshow`
  - `sched`
  - `surgcancel`
  - `sold`
  - `nosurgsold`
  Each downstream bucket is cumulative (e.g., a `sold` contact is also counted in `lead`, `appts`, and `show`).
- Ensure `utmAdId` values from Go High Level match Facebook `ad_id` values; otherwise no funnel metrics will be attributed.
- Date filters are sent in `MM-DD-YYYY` format; you can override the default page size via `GHL_PAGE_LIMIT` if the API allows larger batches.

### API Docs (OpenAPI)

- Visit `/docs` for Swagger UI (served from `src/docs/openapi.yaml`).
- Update the YAML file to add/modify endpoints and schemas.
- Request/response validation enforced via Zod schemas.

### Nginx (recommended)

Express trusts the proxy, respecting `X-Forwarded-*` headers. Example config:
```nginx
upstream fb_insight_upstream { server 127.0.0.1:3000; }
server {
  listen 443 ssl http2;
  server_name example.com;
  location / {
    proxy_pass http://fb_insight_upstream;
    proxy_http_version 1.1;
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
    proxy_set_header Authorization $http_authorization;
  }
}
```

Call via `https://example.com/run-task`.

## API reference

### POST `/run-task`
Triggers Facebook Ads insights import for the provided account and date range. Validated via Zod.

- **Headers**
  - `Authorization: <any non-empty value>` (required; current implementation only checks presence)

- **Body (JSON)**
```json
{
  "fbAccessToken": "<facebook-graph-api-token>",
  "FBadAccountId": "act_123456789",
  "start_date": "2025-04-01",
  "end_date": "2025-04-30",
  "agencyId": "<mongoObjectId>",
  "clientId": "<mongoObjectId>",
  "userId": "<mongoObjectId>",
  "importListName": "My Import",
  "uuid": "<job-uuid>",
  "ad_objective_id": "leads_all",
  "ad_objective_field_expr": "actions.lead",
  "ai": "gemini"  
  // optional; may also be null
}
```

- **Responses**
  - `200 OK`: `{ "success": true, "message": "Task has been queued for processing" }`
  - `400 Bad Request`: Schema validation failed
  - `401 Unauthorized`: Missing header

- **Processing**
  - Enqueues a BullMQ job (`run-task`) handled by `task.worker.js`
  - Persists raw and processed data; optionally merges Athena; enriches assets

### POST `/run-ad-library`
Fetches Facebook Ad Library entries (optional endpoint).

- **Headers**
  - `Authorization: <STATIC_TOKEN>` (exact token; no `Bearer` prefix)

- **Body (JSON)**
```json
{
  "fbAccessToken": "<facebook-graph-api-token>",
  "FBadAccountId": "act_123456789",
  "start_date": "2025-04-01",
  "end_date": "2025-04-30",
  "search_page_ids": "['98269389167']",
  "max_count": 50
}
```

- **Responses**
  - `200 OK`: `{ "success": true, "message": "Task has been queued for processing" }`
  - `400 Bad Request`: Schema validation failed
  - `401 Unauthorized`: Missing/invalid static token

- **Processing**
  - Enqueues a BullMQ job (`run-ad-library`) handled by `adLibrary.worker.js`

### Validation and OpenAPI
- **Validation**: Implemented via Zod schemas under `src/schemas/` and applied by `validate` middleware. Optional fields like `ai`, `ad_objective_id`, `ad_objective_field_expr` accept `null`.
- **OpenAPI**: Served at `/docs` using `swagger-ui-express` with `src/docs/openapi.yaml`.

### Facebook insights ingestion details

- Response normalization: Facebook returns many metrics as arrays of `{action_type, value}` or as numeric strings. The API normalizes these into plain objects and numbers. Example: `actions: [{action_type: 'link_click', value: '159'}]` becomes `actions.link_click = 159`. Dotted action types are flattened with `_` (e.g., `offsite_conversion.custom.123` → `offsite_conversion_custom_123`).
- Requested fields: Includes `impressions`, `reach`, `spend`, `inline_link_clicks`, `frequency`, `actions`, `action_values`, and video fields `video_thruplay_watched_actions`, `video_avg_time_watched_actions`, `video_p{25,50,75,95,100}_watched_actions`, plus `purchase_roas`.
- Mapping for metrics:
  - `link_clicks` is sourced from `inline_link_clicks` (fallback `actions.link_click`). Both `link_clicks` and legacy `link_click` are populated.
  - `vvr = actions.video_view / impressions`.
  - `hold = video_thruplay_watched_actions.video_view / impressions`.
  - `cpc/cpl/cpa` prefer `cost_per_action_type.{link_click|lead|purchase}`; otherwise derived.
  - `purchases` is mapped from `actions.purchase` for formulas like AOV/CPA.
  - `frequency` is requested; if missing but `impressions` and `reach` exist, a fallback `frequency = impressions / reach` is computed.
- Objective result: `result` is taken from `ad_objective_field_expr` (e.g., `actions.lead`). `cvr = result / link_clicks`, `cpr = spend / result`.

### Inclusion of ACTIVE ads with zero activity

- The system lists ads from the Ads edge and fetches per-ad insights for the selected range.
- If an ad is ACTIVE (by `effective_status` or `status`) and returns no insights rows for the range, the API synthesizes a zero-metric record (impressions=0, spend=0, link_clicks=0, vvr=0, hold=0, etc.).
- This ensures active ads are present in reports even when they had no measurable actions in the period, avoiding undercount/misinterpretation.

### Hybrid fetch to prevent spend gaps

- Primary listing: Insights index
  - We first list ads via `/{account_id}/insights?level=ad&fields=ad_id&time_range=...`.
  - This captures all ads that had in-range insights/spend, even if they are currently paused/archived.
- Secondary pass: Ads edge for zeros
  - We then query `/{account_id}/ads?fields=id,name,effective_status,status&ad_status=ACTIVE`.
  - For currently ACTIVE ads missing from the primary set, we add a synthesized zero-metric row so they remain visible.
- Result: Ads with spend in-range are always included; ACTIVE ads with no in-range activity get zero rows; non-active/no-activity ads are not included.

### Timezone and totals

- Facebook Insights use the ad account's timezone for date boundaries. If you compare totals against UTC-based ranges, you may see small discrepancies at day boundaries. Provide `since/until` using account-local dates when reconciling with UI totals.

### Logging and observability

The API emits structured logs you can tail with PM2:

- Fetch progress
  - `fb.insights.list.start|page|page.done|list.done`
  - `fb.ads.edge.page` (Ads edge pagination and count of zeros to add)
- Batch-level diagnostics
  - `fb.batch.insights.error|missing_body|parse_error`
  - `fb.batch.detail.error|missing_body|parse_error`
- Synthetic rows
  - `fb.synthetic.zero` when a zero-metric ad record is created
- Ads pass fallback
  - `fb.ads.edge.skip` if Ads edge call is skipped due to errors

Monitor on server:
```bash
npx pm2 logs fb-task-worker --lines 200 --timestamp
```

### Security and HIPAA considerations

If you process health-related data, treat all data as potentially sensitive and avoid PHI in inputs/outputs.

- Transport
  - Terminate TLS at Nginx and expose the API only over HTTPS.
  - Restrict network access (security groups/firewalls, private subnets/VPC).
- Authentication / Authorization
  - Current /run-task only checks that `Authorization` is present. For regulated environments, enforce strong auth (API keys/JWT) and IP allowlists.
  - For `/run-ad-library`, the header must equal `STATIC_TOKEN`. Prefer rotating API keys stored in a secret manager.
- Secrets management
  - Store tokens/keys (MongoDB URI, Redis password, FB tokens, Sentry DSN, OpenAI key) in a secret manager; rotate regularly.
- Logging
  - Do not log PHI/PII. The code logs stages/metrics only; keep it that way. Ensure Sentry (if enabled) scrubs PII and request bodies.
  - Access tokens are redacted in outbound HTTP logs.
- Data at rest
  - Use MongoDB TLS and disk encryption. Limit access via role-based users with least privilege.
  - For Redis, enable AUTH (and TLS if available) and isolate to a private network.
- Data minimization & retention
  - Only store fields required for reporting; set retention windows and implement secure deletion on request.
- Auditing
  - Maintain audit logs for who initiated imports, when, and from where (IP/user). Retain per compliance policy.
- Contracts
  - Execute BAAs with applicable vendors (cloud, logging, Sentry, OpenAI, etc.) when processing regulated data.

## Data model (MongoDB)
- **fb_insights**: raw ad insights with creative, status, post_url
- **metrics**: processed records per import list and schema
- **imported_lists**: import session metadata + schema snapshot
- **reports_data**, **sub_reports**: reporting artifacts
- **assets**: per-ad assets, creative metadata, extracted links/messages
- **facebook_imports**: job status/progress log
- Optional: **athena_result**, **merged_results**, **fb_ad_libraries**

## Jobs (BullMQ)
- **Queues**: `run-task`, `run-ad-library` (`src/jobs/queues.js`)
- **Workers**: `src/jobs/workers/*.worker.js`
- **Config**: Redis via `REDIS_*` env vars
- **De-duplication**: Jobs are enqueued with `jobId = uuid` to prevent duplicates
- **Retries**: Disabled (`attempts: 1`) so failed jobs do not auto re-run
- **Concurrency**: Workers run with limited concurrency for stability

### Observability (logs)
- Logs are emitted as JSON for easier grep/parse. Common stages:
  - `worker.task.start|done|error` (job lifecycle)
  - `task.start`, `fetch.ads.start|done`, `fb_insights.inserted`
  - `athena.start`, `athena.query.start|poll|done`, `merge.athena`
  - `mapping.headers|match|included.keys|formData`
  - `records.validate.start|done`, `metrics.spend.stats`
  - `metrics.insert.result`, `report.create.done`, `sub_reports.cloned|created.default`
  - `enrichment.messages_links.start|done`, `enrichment.products.start|done`
  - `tagging.start|done|skipped`
  - HTTP client: `http.success|retry|catch.retry|error|fail` (redacted URLs)

## Security
- **Network**: Put behind Nginx with TLS
- **Auth**: Validate `Authorization` header; replace static token with proper auth (JWT/API keys)
- **Secrets**: Store DSN/API keys in env/secret manager
- **Limits**: JSON body limit set to `10mb`; add rate limiting if public

## Troubleshooting
- **Mongo**: Verify `mongodb_uri` and network access
- **Redis**: Ensure Redis is reachable by workers (BullMQ recommends Redis >= 6.2; warnings are informational)
- **Athena**: Check AWS creds, region, database, and S3 output location
- **Facebook API**: Validate access token scopes and date ranges; 429s will backoff and retry automatically
- **Swagger not found**: Install `swagger-ui-express` and `yamljs`, then restart
- **Port in use (EADDRINUSE)**: Stop old PM2 processes or change `PORT`
- **npm ci lock mismatch**: Run `npm install` locally, commit `package-lock.json`, deploy
- **$arrayToObject 40392**: Caused by malformed tag data. The enrichment step now filters invalid `{k,v}` pairs and falls back to JS-built objects, allowing the job to complete.

## Production
Use PM2 and Node 20+:
```bash
# install deps
npm ci --omit=dev

# start
npx pm2 start src/server.js --name fb-api --time
npx pm2 start src/jobs/workers/task.worker.js --name fb-task-worker --time
npx pm2 start src/jobs/workers/adLibrary.worker.js --name fb-adlib-worker --time

# logs
npx pm2 logs fb-api fb-task-worker fb-adlib-worker --lines 200
```

## Scripts
- **Start API**: `npm start` (runs `node src/server.js`)
- **Start workers**: `node src/jobs/workers/task.worker.js`, `node src/jobs/workers/adLibrary.worker.js`

## License
ISC

Commit message:

Require ad_id match when reusing assets

README.md, after:

## fb_insight

An Express.js API to import and process Facebook Ads data. It fetches ad-level insights and Ad Library entries from Facebook Graph API, persists raw and processed data in MongoDB, optionally merges AWS Athena aggregates for allowlisted accounts, enriches assets, and exposes background job processing via BullMQ.

### Features
- **Facebook insights**: Graph API v22.0 insights with creatives (batched requests)
- **Ad Library**: Search by `search_page_ids` and date range
- **Storage**: MongoDB collections (`fb_insights`, `metrics`, `reports_data`, `assets`, etc.)
- **Optional Athena**: Query and merge aggregates for selected accounts
- **Go High Level merge**: Pull CRM opportunities and hydrate `lead` counts for allowlisted ad accounts (via `utmAdId` ↔ `ad_id`)
- **Enrichment**: Preview scraping, optional OpenAI, external tagging API
- **Validation**: Zod request schemas per endpoint
- **Jobs**: BullMQ queues + workers replacing `setTimeout`
- **Observability**: Structured JSON logs for every stage (fetch, mapping, metrics, report, enrichment, tagging)

### Architecture
- **Ingress**: Client → Nginx (TLS) → Express app
- **HTTP**: Routes → Controllers → Services → Repositories
- **Jobs**: Controllers enqueue jobs → BullMQ workers run domain tasks
- **Data sources**: Facebook Graph API, Go High Level (optional), AWS Athena (optional)
- **Storage**: MongoDB

### Directory structure (key parts)
```text
src/
  app.js                # express app setup
  server.js             # process entrypoint
  routes/               # http routes (task, ad-library)
  controllers/          # request handling, enqueue jobs
  middlewares/          # auth, validate, error
  schemas/              # zod request schemas
  services/
    facebook/           # clients for insights/ad library, fields
    reporting/          # mapping, metrics, process, schema.defaults
    enrichment/         # preview/openai/tagging/product
    athena/             # runAthenaQuery
    status/             # saveFacebookImportStatus
  repositories/
    mongo/              # client + common CRUD helpers
  jobs/
    queues.js           # BullMQ queues
    workers/            # job workers (task/adLibrary)
```

## Getting started

### Prerequisites
- **Node.js** 18+
- **MongoDB** (Atlas or self-hosted)
- **Redis** for BullMQ (localhost ok)
- **Facebook Marketing API** access token(s)
- Optional: **AWS** credentials and Athena config

### Install
```bash
npm install
```

### Environment variables
Create `.env` in the project root.

- **Core**
  - `mongodb_uri` (required): MongoDB connection string
  - `PORT` (optional): Express port, default `3000`
  - `SENTRY_DSN` (optional): Sentry DSN
- **Auth/External**
  - `STATIC_TOKEN` (optional): Static token for `/run-ad-library`
  - `FLUX_STATIC_API_KEY` (optional): External tagging API key
  - `OPENAI_API_KEY` (optional): OpenAI API key
- **AWS Athena (optional)**
  - `AWS_REGION` (default `us-east-1`)
  - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`
  - `ATHENA_DATABASE` (e.g. `marketing`)
  - `ATHENA_OUTPUT_LOCATION` (e.g. `s3://bucket/prefix/`)
- **Go High Level (optional, per-account leads)**
  - `GHL_API_TOKEN` and `GHL_LOCATION_ID` (fallback credentials)
  - `GHL_TOKEN_ACT_435957451701926`, `GHL_LOCATION_ACT_435957451701926` (example account-specific overrides)
  - `GHL_API_BASE` (default `https://services.leadconnectorhq.com`)
  - `GHL_API_VERSION` (default `2021-07-28`)
  - `GHL_PAGE_LIMIT` (optional pagination size, default `100`)
- **Redis (BullMQ)**
  - `REDIS_HOST` (default `127.0.0.1`)
  - `REDIS_PORT` (default `6379`)
  - `REDIS_PASSWORD` (optional)

Example:
```bash
mongodb_uri=mongodb+srv://user:pass@cluster/db
PORT=3000
SENTRY_DSN=https://xxx@sentry.io/yyy
STATIC_TOKEN=replace-me
FLUX_STATIC_API_KEY=your-flux-api-key
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
AWS_REGION=us-east-1
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AKIA...
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=...
ATHENA_DATABASE=marketing
ATHENA_OUTPUT_LOCATION=s3://your-bucket/athena/results/
GHL_TOKEN_ACT_435957451701926=pit-your-token
GHL_LOCATION_ACT_435957451701926=jCg6NFxDi5ACN8xv6H2C
REDIS_HOST=127.0.0.1
REDIS_PORT=6379
```

### Run locally
```bash
# 1) start API
npm start

# 2) start workers (separate terminals)
node src/jobs/workers/task.worker.js
node src/jobs/workers/adLibrary.worker.js
```

The server logs: `API listening on <PORT>`.

### Go High Level integration

- A Go High Level pull runs automatically for `act_435957451701926` after Facebook insights import. Configure credentials through either account-specific (`GHL_TOKEN_ACT_...`, `GHL_LOCATION_ACT_...`) or fallback (`GHL_API_TOKEN`, `GHL_LOCATION_ID`) variables.
- The worker paginates `/opportunities/search` with the requested date range, retries on 429/5xx, de-duplicates opportunity IDs, and maps opportunities to ads via `utmAdId` (case-insensitive).
- Funnel metrics are sourced from the pipeline stage on each opportunity. For every matching ad we populate:
  - `lead`
  - `appts`
  - `noresp`
  - `show`
  - `noshow`
  - `sched`
  - `surgcancel`
  - `sold`
  - `nosurgsold`
  Each downstream bucket is cumulative (e.g., a `sold` contact is also counted in `lead`, `appts`, and `show`).
- Ensure `utmAdId` values from Go High Level match Facebook `ad_id` values; otherwise no funnel metrics will be attributed.
- Date filters are sent in `MM-DD-YYYY` format; you can override the default page size via `GHL_PAGE_LIMIT` if the API allows larger batches.

### Asset deduplication

- When normalised metrics are merged, the worker looks for an existing `assets` document whose `adname` matches the metric `Ad_Name` **and** whose `ad_id` matches the current Facebook `ad_id`.
- If both match, the metric inherits that asset’s `_id` (`asset_id`) and the asset is updated with the latest creative metadata and links.
- If the `ad_id` differs (same ad name but a new creative/ad), a brand-new asset document is created so historical assets remain tied to their original Facebook ad.
- Newly created assets are cached in-memory during the job so subsequent rows referencing the same `Ad_Name`/`ad_id` pair reuse the fresh asset entry.

### API Docs (OpenAPI)

- Visit `/docs` for Swagger UI (served from `src/docs/openapi.yaml`).
- Update the YAML file to add/modify endpoints and schemas.
- Request/response validation enforced via Zod schemas.

### Nginx (recommended)

Express trusts the proxy, respecting `X-Forwarded-*` headers. Example config:
```nginx
upstream fb_insight_upstream { server 127.0.0.1:3000; }
server {
  listen 443 ssl http2;
  server_name example.com;
  location / {
    proxy_pass http://fb_insight_upstream;
    proxy_http_version 1.1;
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
    proxy_set_header Authorization $http_authorization;
  }
}
```

Call via `https://example.com/run-task`.

## API reference

### POST `/run-task`
Triggers Facebook Ads insights import for the provided account and date range. Validated via Zod.

- **Headers**
  - `Authorization: <any non-empty value>` (required; current implementation only checks presence)

- **Body (JSON)**
```json
{
  "fbAccessToken": "<facebook-graph-api-token>",
  "FBadAccountId": "act_123456789",
  "start_date": "2025-04-01",
  "end_date": "2025-04-30",
  "agencyId": "<mongoObjectId>",
  "clientId": "<mongoObjectId>",
  "userId": "<mongoObjectId>",
  "importListName": "My Import",
  "uuid": "<job-uuid>",
  "ad_objective_id": "leads_all",
  "ad_objective_field_expr": "actions.lead",
  "ai": "gemini"  
  // optional; may also be null
}
```

- **Responses**
  - `200 OK`: `{ "success": true, "message": "Task has been queued for processing" }`
  - `400 Bad Request`: Schema validation failed
  - `401 Unauthorized`: Missing header

- **Processing**
  - Enqueues a BullMQ job (`run-task`) handled by `task.worker.js`
  - Persists raw and processed data; optionally merges Athena; enriches assets

### POST `/run-ad-library`
Fetches Facebook Ad Library entries (optional endpoint).

- **Headers**
  - `Authorization: <STATIC_TOKEN>` (exact token; no `Bearer` prefix)

- **Body (JSON)**
```json
{
  "fbAccessToken": "<facebook-graph-api-token>",
  "FBadAccountId": "act_123456789",
  "start_date": "2025-04-01",
  "end_date": "2025-04-30",
  "search_page_ids": "['98269389167']",
  "max_count": 50
}
```

- **Responses**
  - `200 OK`: `{ "success": true, "message": "Task has been queued for processing" }`
  - `400 Bad Request`: Schema validation failed
  - `401 Unauthorized`: Missing/invalid static token

- **Processing**
  - Enqueues a BullMQ job (`run-ad-library`) handled by `adLibrary.worker.js`

### Validation and OpenAPI
- **Validation**: Implemented via Zod schemas under `src/schemas/` and applied by `validate` middleware. Optional fields like `ai`, `ad_objective_id`, `ad_objective_field_expr` accept `null`.
- **OpenAPI**: Served at `/docs` using `swagger-ui-express` with `src/docs/openapi.yaml`.

### Facebook insights ingestion details

- Response normalization: Facebook returns many metrics as arrays of `{action_type, value}` or as numeric strings. The API normalizes these into plain objects and numbers. Example: `actions: [{action_type: 'link_click', value: '159'}]` becomes `actions.link_click = 159`. Dotted action types are flattened with `_` (e.g., `offsite_conversion.custom.123` → `offsite_conversion_custom_123`).
- Requested fields: Includes `impressions`, `reach`, `spend`, `inline_link_clicks`, `frequency`, `actions`, `action_values`, and video fields `video_thruplay_watched_actions`, `video_avg_time_watched_actions`, `video_p{25,50,75,95,100}_watched_actions`, plus `purchase_roas`.
- Mapping for metrics:
  - `link_clicks` is sourced from `inline_link_clicks` (fallback `actions.link_click`). Both `link_clicks` and legacy `link_click` are populated.
  - `vvr = actions.video_view / impressions`.
  - `hold = video_thruplay_watched_actions.video_view / impressions`.
  - `cpc/cpl/cpa` prefer `cost_per_action_type.{link_click|lead|purchase}`; otherwise derived.
  - `purchases` is mapped from `actions.purchase` for formulas like AOV/CPA.
  - `frequency` is requested; if missing but `impressions` and `reach` exist, a fallback `frequency = impressions / reach` is computed.
- Objective result: `result` is taken from `ad_objective_field_expr` (e.g., `actions.lead`). `cvr = result / link_clicks`, `cpr = spend / result`.

### Inclusion of ACTIVE ads with zero activity

- The system lists ads from the Ads edge and fetches per-ad insights for the selected range.
- If an ad is ACTIVE (by `effective_status` or `status`) and returns no insights rows for the range, the API synthesizes a zero-metric record (impressions=0, spend=0, link_clicks=0, vvr=0, hold=0, etc.).
- This ensures active ads are present in reports even when they had no measurable actions in the period, avoiding undercount/misinterpretation.

### Hybrid fetch to prevent spend gaps

- Primary listing: Insights index
  - We first list ads via `/{account_id}/insights?level=ad&fields=ad_id&time_range=...`.
  - This captures all ads that had in-range insights/spend, even if they are currently paused/archived.
- Secondary pass: Ads edge for zeros
  - We then query `/{account_id}/ads?fields=id,name,effective_status,status&ad_status=ACTIVE`.
  - For currently ACTIVE ads missing from the primary set, we add a synthesized zero-metric row so they remain visible.
- Result: Ads with spend in-range are always included; ACTIVE ads with no in-range activity get zero rows; non-active/no-activity ads are not included.

### Timezone and totals

- Facebook Insights use the ad account's timezone for date boundaries. If you compare totals against UTC-based ranges, you may see small discrepancies at day boundaries. Provide `since/until` using account-local dates when reconciling with UI totals.

### Logging and observability

The API emits structured logs you can tail with PM2:

- Fetch progress
  - `fb.insights.list.start|page|page.done|list.done`
  - `fb.ads.edge.page` (Ads edge pagination and count of zeros to add)
- Batch-level diagnostics
  - `fb.batch.insights.error|missing_body|parse_error`
  - `fb.batch.detail.error|missing_body|parse_error`
- Synthetic rows
  - `fb.synthetic.zero` when a zero-metric ad record is created
- Ads pass fallback
  - `fb.ads.edge.skip` if Ads edge call is skipped due to errors

Monitor on server:
```bash
npx pm2 logs fb-task-worker --lines 200 --timestamp
```

### Security and HIPAA considerations

If you process health-related data, treat all data as potentially sensitive and avoid PHI in inputs/outputs.

- Transport
  - Terminate TLS at Nginx and expose the API only over HTTPS.
  - Restrict network access (security groups/firewalls, private subnets/VPC).
- Authentication / Authorization
  - Current /run-task only checks that `Authorization` is present. For regulated environments, enforce strong auth (API keys/JWT) and IP allowlists.
  - For `/run-ad-library`, the header must equal `STATIC_TOKEN`. Prefer rotating API keys stored in a secret manager.
- Secrets management
  - Store tokens/keys (MongoDB URI, Redis password, FB tokens, Sentry DSN, OpenAI key) in a secret manager; rotate regularly.
- Logging
  - Do not log PHI/PII. The code logs stages/metrics only; keep it that way. Ensure Sentry (if enabled) scrubs PII and request bodies.
  - Access tokens are redacted in outbound HTTP logs.
- Data at rest
  - Use MongoDB TLS and disk encryption. Limit access via role-based users with least privilege.
  - For Redis, enable AUTH (and TLS if available) and isolate to a private network.
- Data minimization & retention
  - Only store fields required for reporting; set retention windows and implement secure deletion on request.
- Auditing
  - Maintain audit logs for who initiated imports, when, and from where (IP/user). Retain per compliance policy.
- Contracts
  - Execute BAAs with applicable vendors (cloud, logging, Sentry, OpenAI, etc.) when processing regulated data.

## Data model (MongoDB)
- **fb_insights**: raw ad insights with creative, status, post_url
- **metrics**: processed records per import list and schema
- **imported_lists**: import session metadata + schema snapshot
- **reports_data**, **sub_reports**: reporting artifacts
- **assets**: per-ad assets, creative metadata, extracted links/messages
- **facebook_imports**: job status/progress log
- Optional: **athena_result**, **merged_results**, **fb_ad_libraries**

## Jobs (BullMQ)
- **Queues**: `run-task`, `run-ad-library` (`src/jobs/queues.js`)
- **Workers**: `src/jobs/workers/*.worker.js`
- **Config**: Redis via `REDIS_*` env vars
- **De-duplication**: Jobs are enqueued with `jobId = uuid` to prevent duplicates
- **Retries**: Disabled (`attempts: 1`) so failed jobs do not auto re-run
- **Concurrency**: Workers run with limited concurrency for stability

### Observability (logs)
- Logs are emitted as JSON for easier grep/parse. Common stages:
  - `worker.task.start|done|error` (job lifecycle)
  - `task.start`, `fetch.ads.start|done`, `fb_insights.inserted`
  - `athena.start`, `athena.query.start|poll|done`, `merge.athena`
  - `mapping.headers|match|included.keys|formData`
  - `records.validate.start|done`, `metrics.spend.stats`
  - `metrics.insert.result`, `report.create.done`, `sub_reports.cloned|created.default`
  - `enrichment.messages_links.start|done`, `enrichment.products.start|done`
  - `tagging.start|done|skipped`
  - HTTP client: `http.success|retry|catch.retry|error|fail` (redacted URLs)

## Security
- **Network**: Put behind Nginx with TLS
- **Auth**: Validate `Authorization` header; replace static token with proper auth (JWT/API keys)
- **Secrets**: Store DSN/API keys in env/secret manager
- **Limits**: JSON body limit set to `10mb`; add rate limiting if public

## Troubleshooting
- **Mongo**: Verify `mongodb_uri` and network access
- **Redis**: Ensure Redis is reachable by workers (BullMQ recommends Redis >= 6.2; warnings are informational)
- **Athena**: Check AWS creds, region, database, and S3 output location
- **Facebook API**: Validate access token scopes and date ranges; 429s will backoff and retry automatically
- **Swagger not found**: Install `swagger-ui-express` and `yamljs`, then restart
- **Port in use (EADDRINUSE)**: Stop old PM2 processes or change `PORT`
- **npm ci lock mismatch**: Run `npm install` locally, commit `package-lock.json`, deploy
- **$arrayToObject 40392**: Caused by malformed tag data. The enrichment step now filters invalid `{k,v}` pairs and falls back to JS-built objects, allowing the job to complete.

## Production
Use PM2 and Node 20+:
```bash
# install deps
npm ci --omit=dev

# start
npx pm2 start src/server.js --name fb-api --time
npx pm2 start src/jobs/workers/task.worker.js --name fb-task-worker --time
npx pm2 start src/jobs/workers/adLibrary.worker.js --name fb-adlib-worker --time

# logs
npx pm2 logs fb-api fb-task-worker fb-adlib-worker --lines 200
```

## Scripts
- **Start API**: `npm start` (runs `node src/server.js`)
- **Start workers**: `node src/jobs/workers/task.worker.js`, `node src/jobs/workers/adLibrary.worker.js`

## License
ISC
